Prohibitive Rules
November 3, 2019

I hate prohibitive rules: rules that tell you 'you can't.' Since prohibitive rules form the basis of modern conservative Islam, I grew up hearing prohibitions (and still do when I speak to my parents). 'Don't eat pork.' 'Don't drink alcohol.' 'Don't draw Mohammad.' 'Don't do drugs.' 'Don't do sex.' 'Don't be gay.' 'Don't steal.' 'Don't kill.' 'Don't have more than 4 wives.' 'Are you doing bad things with your friends?' My problem with these rules is that they tell you nothing about how you should behave or act in this world. They tell you nothing about how you should treat yourself or the others around you.

Rules that are about behavior are better guides of life. 'Read the Quran.' 'Pray 5 times a day.' 'Fast during Ramadan.' These rules form what the religion is truly about since they better represent what the religion offers. CollegeHumor had expressed in their video Religious People Are Nerds (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gNtnN_DiP3o) the similarity between religious people and nerds. Both try offering you lore, merchandise and a way of life. I put forth another similarity between religious people and nerds. I propose that religious people who focus on their way of life and who can see why their religion is valuable to them (as opposed to the prohibitions) are more confident and less insecure than their fellow religious people who do focus on what they shouldn't do. Just as nerds who focus on what their interests give them (strong links with the like-minded, a passion, etc.) as opposed to what their interests take away (not virginity) will be more secure than those nerds afraid of dying alone.

Finally, I want to touch upon how we should think as opposed to how we should not think. We should be figuring out what we want out of life. From this rules about how you should live will emerge. On an individual basis, we should aim to slim down what we should do next with decisiveness and principles based on our experiences. Our open mind will widen our possibilities, but our principles will find our path. If we think in this decisive manner, there is no need to wonder about what we should not do as that set will be way bigger than the set of things we should do.

